Dependent statistics are often used in feature selection, aiding the process of choosing a subsets of predictors, to both avoid overfitting and lower computational overhead. There exists many dependent statistics. A few includes: 
- Pearson Correlation Coefficient: used to determnine linear dependent, taking values $$[-1,1]$$, where 0 determines no linear dependent, with $$1$$ or $$-1$$ as perfect positive or negative linear correlation (numpy.corrcoef).
- Distance Correlation: used to determine dependent, taking values $[0, 1]$, where $0$ determines independent and $1$ for complete dependent (statsmodels.stats.dist_dependence_measures.distance_correlation).
- Mutual Information: used to determine dependent, taking values $[0,\infty)$, where $0$ determines independent and $>0$ for dependent (KSG - infomeasure).

Choosing which and how to use them becomes a question in itself - are there situations where one statistics is prefered over another? From the three listed above, there exists two classes: statistics that can identify linear dependent, and those that can identify non-linear dependent. Given a vector space of function (closed under addition implies additive model), different statistics can be compared empirically on each elements of the basis.  

Restricting the domain to be $[-1,1]$, two sets are chosen to be representive of the basis of two vector spaces of function: polynomials $`\{x^a\}`$ for $a=0,..., 100$ and periodic $`\{1, \sin(bx), \cos(bx)\}`$ for $b=1,..., 50$. A set of exponential functions $`\{e^{cx}\}`$ for $c\in(0,5]$ is also chosen. All three statistics listed above are computed for each element. Given that mutual information (in this case) is based on nearest-neighbour/have a hyperparameter, the chosen values are $k=1,..., 0.10 * n$, where $n = len(x)$, the number of $x$ points.

